Internet: Entire collection of global computer network
www- world wide web is a project where all documents/links are stored.Everything is stored on web server.
Protocol: a rule set by Internet society on how the particular thing to be sent over internet. (eg. email,videos,photos)
TCP: Transmission control protocol: It ensures that data is reached completely
UDP: User datagram protocol : not 100% data transfer eg. video conferencing.
RTP: real time transport protocol.

***Lets say, there are ABC points as server. When A makes a phonecall to C, C sends an acknowledgement to server B in form of response code. thats why it is known as RTP.
whereas, in video conferencing, acknowledgement is not received so it is an eg of UDP***

HTTP: hyper text transfer protocol: used by web client & server: Port 80
Who controls/create the rules? : Internet society
Client: sends the request to server
Server: sends the response to client
IP address: every device connected over internet to each other have IP address. eg. h.h.h.h (each h is having 0-255 numbers)
            (its nothing but phonebook of internet)
            eg. google.com will connect to any of the IP address
            $ curl ipconfig.me -s
            Lets say there is an Internet service provider who provides us a modem/router, so all the devices connected to this modem will have the same IP address around the world.
            Inside that modem devices can be there. and modem will give local IP address to them as well using DHCP(Dynamic host configuration protocol).
Modem : coverts digital signal to analog signal and vice versa.
        eg. digital data in computer to electrical signal i.e telephone sides and get recovered as image
Router: a device which routes the data packets based on IP addresses
Internet service provider: company which provides internet

Topologies:
1) BUS: computers connected to a chord or backbone. Limitations: if cable breaks no data transfer. everything gets transmitted via cable so only one person can send data at a time
2) RING: every system communicates with one another. Limitations: if cable breaks no data transfer. Unnecessary calls are made.
3) STAR: all computers are connected to single central system. Limitations: if central device fails, network goes down.
4)TREE : (BUS & STAR). many stars connected into bus type of way.
5) MESH: Every single computer is connected to every single computer. Limitations: expensive, so many wires are used, scalability issue.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STRUCTURE OF NETWORK:

OSI: open systems interconnection model
its a standard for how servers/computers communicates with each other

7 layers in OSI
Application: its implemented in software eg. whatsapp or any other messenger
Presentation:takes data from application in form of word, charac, number, etc. It translates data into binary form. encrypts/decrypts/compress/encode data. ssl is used. provide abstraction.
Session:  it helps to setting up and managing the connection. enables sending and receiving the data followed by termination of connected session.
Transport: segmentation, port no, sequence number, flow control, error control. It works using TCP & UDP
Network: works for transmission of data for two computers in different network. logical addressing i.e ip address. assign senders and receivers ip address to data packets
         and performs routing i.e moving data packets one to another. Loadbalancing happens here.
Data Link: allows to communicate directly with computer / host. physical addressing is done here. MAC address is 12 digit alphanumeric number.
          1. allows upper layer of osi model to access the frames. 2) controls how the data is placed and received from media using media access control.
Physical: hardware section. transmits the bit from electrical segment like cables/ electrical signal/ wifi. converts the signal at receivers end

TCP/IP Model: used pratically
Application:
Transport:
Network:
Data link:
physical:

Application layer:s
user interacts with this.
whatsapp, browser, etc
where: device
Protocols:
Client server architecture






NAT: Network Access translator: helps to decide from where the request has come.
Ports: identifies an particular application in device. It's a 16 bit number
Reserved ports: 0-1023
Registered for specific application: 1024-49152    (MongodB: 27017, SQL:1433)
1 mbps-mega bits per sec = 1000000 bits/sec
1 gbps = 10^9 bits/sec
1kbps = 1000 bits/sec
submarinecables.com

LAN: local area network: it works in small area like offices/houses
MAN: metropaletial area network : across city
WAN- wide area network : across countries (opticle fibre cables)
1) SONET : SYNCHRONUS OPTICAL NETWORKING : CARRIES THE DATA USING OPTICLE FIBRE NETWORK SO CAN COVER LARGE AREA/DISTANCES
2)FRAME RELAY: LOCAL AREA NETWORK TO WIDER AREA








Packets:

