Interview questions : 

1) Introduction
2) Explain the use of final keyword in java.
3) Explain about lambda expressions in java 8
4) How prevention of duplicates are handled internally in sets in java collections.
5) Why do we need equls and hashcode methods.
6) Lets say we have a service and service is covered with all kind of tests like functional testing, perfromance testing, VAPT testing, 
How will you convince your client that unit testing is still required.
7) Explain dependency injection.

8) What if the interface has two different implementation? What will happen during injecting the dependency? How to handle this scenarion?
9) Kind of bean scopes in spring? which one is default?

10) We have a Singleton bean and inside have a function and the Singleton bean has a dependency on a on another bean.
And what we want to achieve in this function that whenever we call it, we get a new instance of this dependency and use that one to do some calculation.
How to achieve this in spring?

11) Have you defined yourself a CICD pipeline?
12) What makes a service RESTFUL? Architectural constrainst of RESTFUL web service.
13) What makes a service stateless. Explain with real time examples.

14) Difference between 400 and 500 status codes.
15) Explain docker and complete process until deployement if you have a docker file for the application.
16) Difference between relational databases and nosql databases.
17) Difrerent types of NoSQL databases.

18) Let's assume the following scenario. You have a web service and this web service reads from a relational database.One day you get an alert 
that the service can handle half as many requests as before.How would you investigate what the problem is and what would you do with it?

19) Disadvantages of indexing in database.

20) Difference between database sharding and database partitioning.


Client interview : 

1) Introduction
2) Write a code using streams to compare two arraylists element by element if there are millions of records in a list.
Design a very generalized persistant layer using generics : Scenarion : create read update and delete methods in a class and methods 
should be valid for all relational database persistance, NOSQL database, Files.
3) SQL queries to join two tables using inner join, right join, left join, sql queries with group by clause.
4) Write pointcut expression using spring AOP.
5) Spring bean scopes.
6) There are millions of records in a database, REST API response expected time is 30 seconds, you need to update 5000 records in a single transaction,
how to improve update query perfromance.
7) How hashmap work internally?
8) What if I add two same employee objects to hashmap key?
9) How to make two employees same and override the value if two same employees added as a key.
10) Difference between object level locking and class level locking in multithreading context.
11) Explain executor service.
12) Advantages of spring boot over spring.