How to integrate DynamoDB with spring boot application : 
Next we will deploy same spring boot application in aws eleastic beanstalk

Dynamo db are managed noSQL databses optimized for perfromance at scale.

These databases are unstructured. They do not have specific data model or 
is not organized in pre-defined manner.

Structure of dynamodb : 

RollNo : 01                       
Name : Bhupindar
Class : M.Tech                  ==> Item
Age : 31

-------------------------

RollNo : 30
Name : Aman
Branch : CSE                    ==> Item
Fav.color : Red

-------------------------

RollNo : 32
Hobby : BasketBall
Location : Meerut               ==> Item
Position : Sr.Trainer
Contact : +917387304317

--------------------------

Name, RollNo, Hobby, Location are called as attribute. Items are made up of attributes.
RollNo is common in all the items. Hence RollNo is primary key.
Table is the collection of all items.
An item consist of a primary or a composite key and flexible number of attributes.
When there are more than one primary key then it is composite key.
Lets say RollNo and EnrollmentNo are composite key.
Aggregate size of the item cannot be more than 400KB
For item size more than 400KB, put it in a S3 bucket and refer URL of S3 bucket in item of a table.

Read capacity unit : 

What amount of data you can read , what is your capacity to read. On that basis your bill will be calculated.
1) Eventually consistant
2) Stronly consistant

1 R.C.U = 4KB for strongly consistant
2 R.C.U = 2KB for eventually consistant

Eventually consistant is faster as compared to strongly consistant. Because eventually consistant reads only settled data
or the data that is properly committed. It does not wait for the data that is being replicated to finish and return just older records.
Hence eventually consistant are cheaper as compared to strongly consistant.
Where as strongly consistant wait for records to get replicated across many servers and then return results. Hence a little delay.Strongly consiatant
also does not garanty the data if there's been a delay in replication due to things like n/w connectivity.

Write capacity unit : 

1 W.C.U = 1 KB

Dynamo DB are more used in an application where read is more frequent operation.
Scan search the table based on a specific field. Where as query search the table based on primary key.
For global tables, replicas will be created in different regions.Streams need to be enabled to use global tables.

DynamoDB supports both document and key-value structures.

# What are the key features of DynamoDB?
Highly Scalable without any intervention from the user.
It has a latency of microseconds.
Serverless and enterprise-ready.
Encryption at Rest.
On-demand backup and restore.
Point-in-time recovery.

Advantages : 

We can store any amount of data with the unlimited storage provided by the DynamoDB service.
The data we store replicates over many availability regions. It allows to easily cope with global-scale applications 
and make sensitive information highly available.
It is highly cost-effective, and the users have to pay only for what they use.
Easy administration and the user doesn't have to worry about software patching, setup, and configuration because AWS fully manages DynamoDB.
DynamoDB has an advanced system for reporting and highly secured user authentication mechanisms to provide maximum security over sensitive data.

Disadvantages : 

No triggers and lack server-side scripts.
No table joins possible.
Data querying is highly limited.
The cost can be unpredictable with spikes in usage.

The DynamoDBMapper class is an entry point that allows access to DynamoDB endpoints, enabling users to handle the database. 
Users can perform CRUD operations, run queries, and scan against tables. 
And this class is only available for Java.

DynamoDB supports two types of primary keys:

Partition key: A simple primary key, composed of one attribute known as the partition key. 
Attributes in DynamoDB are similar in many ways to fields or columns in other database systems.

Partition key and sort key: Referred to as a composite primary key, this type of key is composed of two attributes. 
The first attribute is the partition key, and the second attribute is the sort key. All data under a partition key is sorted by the sort key value. 
The following is an example.

DynamoDB stores data as groups of attributes, known as items. Items are similar to rows or records in other database systems. 
DynamoDB stores and retrieves each item based on the primary key value, which must be unique. 
Items are distributed across 10-GB storage units, called partitions (physical storage internal to DynamoDB)

5 ways to fetch data from DynamoDB
GetItem
Query
Scan
BatchGet
TransactRead

Encryption at Rest is a security mechanism DynamoDB uses to protect sensitive data. 
This database service uses the AWS KMS (AWS Key Management Service) keys to encrypt all the data at rest. 
There are three types of AWS KMS keys to select from:

AWS owned key
AWS managed key
Customer managed key

DAX (Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator) is a type of in-memory cache. 
Even when it is millions of requests per second, DynamoDB Accelerator provides a performance up to 10 times the original rate. 
In addition, it is fully managed and is highly available.

DynamoDB Global Tables allow users to replicate their data over different regions of choice. 
That makes the data highly available and quickly delivered across global applications of enormous size. 
Every data write made to a global table is replicated over all the regions having replicas of the same table.

BatchGetItem allows retrieving attributes of one or more items from one or more tables using the primary key. 
There is a limitation of 16MB up to which this operation can return items.

An index is a data structure that enhances the data retrieval speed from the database. 
However, it costs some storage space and additional writes to the database to maintain the index data structure.

DynamoDB has two types of indexes:

Global secondary index

GSI Example
Consider this table that contains Uuid as primary key, UserId and Data attributes.

| Uuid(Partition Key) | UserId | Data |

With this base table key schema, it can answer queries to retrieve data for a uuid. 
However, to get all data for a user id, it would have to do a scan query and get all the items that have matching user id.

To be able to get all data for a user efficiently, you can use a global secondary index that has UserId as its primary key (partition key). 
Using this index, you can do a query to retrieve all data for a user.

Local secondary index

Local Secondary Index enables different sorting order of the same list of items as LSI uses the same partition key as base table but different sort key. 
Consider this table that uses composite keys: UserId as partition key, ArticleName as sort key and other attributes: DateCreated and Data.

|UserId(Partition Key) | ArticleName(Sort Key) | DateCreated | Data| 
With this base table key schema, it can answer queries to retrieve all the article sorted by names for a specific user(query by UserId). 
However, to retrieve all the articles associated with a user sorted by date created, you would have to retrieve all the articles first and sort them.

With a local secondary index that has UserId as its partition key and DateCreated as its sort key, you can retrieve a user’s articles sorted by date created.

|UserId(Partition Key) | DateCreated(Sort Key) | ArticleName | Data|