Total security is unachievable. 
Use your threat model to prioratize securities.
Find the weakest link and protect it. Make them as difficult to exploit as possible.

General Security Principles : 

1) Least Privilage : Allow access to only those users and operation which are necessary for then and only specific to that operation.

Person in account section should not have access to human resource information and vice versa.
And any person who has limited previlages should not be able to change their previlages.

Code access : You should apply principle of least privilage to your code and limit what is available to other code.
public functions can be called outside the code.
Make them private and only code which is necessary to call outside class should be public.

2) Simple is more secure : 

The larger and more complex the system becomes , more difficult for securing the system.

Some tips : 

a) Use clear names for variable and functions so that they can be understandable.
b) Write code comments.
c) Prefer built in functions : They are made more secure
d) Remove cruft : redandancy
e) Disable unused features.
f) Breaking long section of code in to short caan greatly reduce security.
g) If we duplicate code and fix it in one version it might not get fixed in other.

3) Never trust users : 

Its similar to least privilage but way beyond that.
You never know who is the possible hacker.

4) Expect the unexpected : 

You have to be proactive not reactive

5) Defence in deapth : 

Adding an extra layer of protection.

There are three main categories of defences when planning securing a website : 
a) Physical : Access control doors, security cameras, security guards.
b) Technical : Hardwares ,softwares, network protections 
c) Administrative : Training, security measures

6) Security through obscurity : 

The less information you give out the better.
Information should be kept on a need to know basis.

For example in below URL an attacker can tell what server side language is being used : 

https://www.index.com/index.php

HTTP response headers should not include the software version.

7) Deny list and allow list : 

Allow list is a better option with respect to security.
Only certain users are allowed and all other users are denied.

Lets say a new user is added so by default he will not have an access as we will need to provide him an access through allow list.








